.TH CHKUP 8l "21st January r
.SH NAME
.B chkup
- checks that host is up and specified ports are available.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBchkup\fR [\fB-c \fI<config_file>\fR] [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-l\fR]
[\fB-r \fI<rcpt_email_addr>\fR] [\fB-v\fR]  <\fIclientid\fR>
.br
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B chkup
is a Bourne shell script which should work equally well on all versions of UNIX,
Linux and Mac OS X.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chkup
uses 
.B nmap
to check that specified ports are open on a remote host. This functionality
duplicates a small part of that in 
.B chkfw
but I find is useful for those clients that have sites to which I have no
access but which nevertheless need monitoring.
.LP
.B NB .
A short client id is normally given in preference to a host name on the 
command line. This is used to identify the configuration stanza in 
the configuration file which will have the required hostname or IP address.
If no configuration file is found or if the client id is not found in the
configuration file
.B chkup
will assume that \fIclientid=hostname\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B -c
Use the specified configuration file in preference to the default
\fI"/usr/local/etc/chkup.cf"\fR. If no configuration file is found the 
script will attempt to soldier on with the information it has from the 
command line.
.TP 5
.B -l
Use the local syslog facility to record the results of the check.
.TP 5
\fB-r \fR<email_address>\fR
Send alerts to the specified user address. This will be used in preference
to the recipient specified in the configuration file and is useful when testing
the script. If no recipient is specified either on the command line nor in
the configuration file
.B chkup 
will send alerts to the invoking user's local mailbox. 
.TP 5
\fB-d\fR
Start in debug mode. The \fB-x\fR option is set within the shell.
.TP
.B -v
Set verbose mode. Ordinarily 
.B chkup
operates silently unless show stopping problems are detected. In 
.I verbose
mode 
.B chkup
reports on each significant action.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.ft CW
chkup -l -v merlin
.ft R
.LP
Check that ports specified in the default configuration file,
.I "/usr/local/chkup.cf" ,
are available on the host merlin and log the
the results using the 
.B syslog
facility.
.LP
Verbose mode will be used causing
.B chkup
to report significant actions to standard out or standard error.
.LP
.ft CW
chkup www.fulford.net
.ft R
.LP
The script will check the configuration file for the client id
"www.fulford.net".
If no entry is found, as seems likely, "www.fulford.net" will be assumed to
be a hostname and 
.B nmap
will be run with the "\fI-Pn\fR" option. No ports will be specified.
.SH BUGS
The script is quite crude having very little error checking. The consequences
of unexpected input are untested. Where multiple ports are checked if any are open
this is reported as success. This needs dealing with urgently.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR chkdf ,
.IR chkftpd ,
.IR chkfw ,
.IR clean ,
.IR secscan .
.SH AUTHOR
Clifford W Fulford, City Linux. Contact fulford@fulford.net or +44 (0)709 229 5385.
.SH HISTORY
